MAPIMP plugin version 0.9
by takerZ
tPORt, 2009-2010

• What is this?
This is an OllyDbg plugin which will help you to import
map files exported by IDA, Dede, IDR, Microsoft and Borland
linkers.

• Why?
There are many plugins using which you can perform similar
actions, but mapimp:
- Recognizes debugged file segments and applies names correctly
- Has an option to overwrite or skip names that intersect already defined
- Has a filter option which gives you great name demangling potential
- Works fast (but who cares nowadays, right?)

• How to install?
If you ask this question you probably don't need this software.

• How to use?
"Import map" menu item guides you to the file pick dialog. Pick the map
file you want to import and be happy. Just make sure your debugging session is
active 
"Options" menu item guides you to the options dialog (thank you, captain
Obvious).

- Import objects
There are two objects you can import: comments and labels. Nothing interesting
here.

- Collisions
Check "Skip if collision" to protect already defined names from being
overwritten.
Check "Overwrite" otherwise.

- Apply names to
Check "Viewed module" to apply names to the module you are currently viewing in
a disassembler window. It is useful if you want to work with the library which
is linked to your debuggee.
Check "Debuggee" and whatever EIP you are the names will be applied to the
module adequate to the file of your debugging session.

- If map file found
When new session starts mapimp searches for
DEBUGGEE_FILE_PATH\DEBUGGEE_FILE_NAME.MAP and proposes to load it right away.
Of course not everyone want to see the annoing message so the feature is
optional.

- Filter
The main idea is to apply series of masks to every single name loaded. Mask
syntax goes as follows:

/[i]key[replacement/]regex

Key "c" cuts the substring that matched regular expression.

Key "s" skips the name if regular expression succeeds. It may be useful if you
want to skip some dummy or incorrect names.

Key "r" replaces the substring that matched regular expression with your own.
Slash character separates the replacement from the regular expression. You can
also use "%" character to insert matched substring to the replacement. There
can be only one insert, so multiple percents lead to the fact that only the
first occurence will be recognized as a pseudo variable, others will be
ignored. To make slash or percent one of the characters of your replacement
string cover them with a backslash ("\/", "\%" and "\\" for backslash itself).

Key prefix "i" tells regular expression compiler to ignore character case when
regex will be executed.

Remember that if the name met mask condition it will be changed, then the
second mask is applied to the changed name and so on. The order of mask
applying is adequate to the order of appearance in the list. I also
recommend you to refer to the SAMPLES file.

As about regular expressions, the plugin uses PCRE library which syntax is
compatible with perl regular expressions. Check http://www.pcre.org for docs
and sources.

For adding, editing and other actions you can perform with masks use mask
manager's context menu.

Before being processed by mask filter names may be demangled. Microsoft and
Borland mangling schemes are supported and only names are undecorated. If map
file contains already demangled names the feature is ignored. Check "Demangle
names" to enable.

• Keyboard shortcuts

- From OllyDbg main window
Ctrl + Shift + I    Import map file
Ctrl + Shift + M    Options

- From mapimp options window
Ctrl + A       Add new mask
Ctrl + I       Insert new mask
Ctrl + E       Edit mask
Ctrl + S       Save mask list
Ctrl + L       Load mask list
Ctrl + Up      Move mask upwards
Ctrl + Down    Move mask downwards
Ctrl + PgUp    Move mask to the beginning
Ctrl + PgDown  Move mask to the end
Enter          Apply
Esc            Cancel

Also window control accelerator is availible. Use Alt + underscored letter to
interact.

• How to compile?
To compile the plugin by yourself you need PCRE library sources and your
debugger's plugin SDK. Currently supported debuggers are: OllyDbg 1.10 and
ImmunityDbg 1.73. To change the target debugger modify the appropriate switch
in mapimp.c by uncommenting it and commenting the others. For how to compile
PCRE library on win32 refer to the document called "NON-UNIX-USE" from the
source package. "BUILDING PCRE ON WINDOWS WITH CMAKE" paragraph contains
step-by-step guide up to what button you should press next. When you get all
the libraries pile them together, create a project using your favourite IDE
(I've used MSVC 8), configure the compiler for best performance and press
build button. You may have to modify import library names, so refer to
mapimp.h or solve it somehow on your own. You may also have troubles getting
import library for Immunity while trying to compile with MSCC. An official PDK
package contains library in OMF format, so it doesn't stick. DO NOT TRY TO
CONVERT IT to a COFF format, cuz you get yourself fucked up. Fortunately there
is a simple solution. Modify .def file so that "NAME" macro value looks like
"ImmunityDebugger" (w/o quotes) and remove all the underscores before exports.
Then launch the VS command prompt, change current directory to the one where
.def file is and run "lib /def:DEF_FILE_NAME" command. The import library in
format compatible with your compiler should appear in the same directory .def
file is.

• Contacts
If you found a bug or you have some suggestions, please, let me know.
But don't even try to ask me for missing libs. They could easily be found on
the web.
email: push.ret@gmail.com

• Crazy exclamation
Enter and compile, in a place we are the force!!